=pod

=head1 NAME

Version::Semantic - Tiny SemVer based class implementation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Version::Semantic ();

  my $v_unstable = Version::Semantic->parse( '1.0.0-alpha' );
  my $v_testing  = Version::Semantic->parse( '1.0.0-beta' );
  my $v_stable   = Version::Semantic->parse( 'v1.0.0' );

  if ( $v_unstable < $v_testing and $v_testing < $v_stable ) {
    ...
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class defines immutable version objects that support the L<Semantic
Versioning Specification (SemVer)|https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html>.

The class has a C<parse()> factory method to create objects from their string
representation. The method accepts semantic version strings that have a
C<v> prefix.

Each object has the mandatory attributes C<major>, C<minor>,
and C<patch>.  Optional object attributes are C<pre_release> and
C<build>. C<has_pre_release()> and C<has_build_()> predicate methods exist too.

The C<version_core()> object method returns the semantic version string of
an object without the C<v> prefix and pre-release and build extensions.

The C<to_string()> object method returns the semantic version string of an
object without the C<v> prefix. It is used to overload the stringification
C<""> operator.

The C<compare_to()> object method implements the L<precedence
rules|https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html#spec-item-11>. It is used to
overload the numeric comparison C<E<lt>=E<gt>> operator. This allows you to
compare version objects.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 2

=item *

L<SemVer::V2::Strict>

=item *

L<SemVer>

=item *

L<Version::Dotted::Semantic>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sven Willenbuecher <sven.willenbuecher@gmx.de>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2025 by Sven Willenbuecher.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
